- [Instructor] Let us continue our studies
of spring performance monitoring
by learning about the performance monitor interceptor.
Performance monitor interceptor provides easy to configure
targeted performance logging.
It is an aspect oriented functionality.
This particular class lives within the org dot spring
framework dot AOP dot interceptor package.
Performance monitor interceptor integrates seamlessly
with Log4j or your existing logging infrastructure,
in order to track specific performance concerns
that are unique to your application.
I find it useful when there's a method
or a service call that I have some reason
to be concerned about,
or I just want to track it carefully.
This is a really good time to invoke the functionality
of the performance monitor interceptor.
As I mentioned, it is an aspect oriented solution.
And so let's go over three very high level terms
that I might be referring to as I talk through the solution.
Advice is a bit of externalized behavior.
It can be just as simple as that in your mind,
a bit of externalized behavior,
a pointcut is an expression that describes points
in the execution of your application,
where you want advice to be applied.
So where you want that externalized behavior to be invoked.
And an aspect is a class that declares advices
and pointcuts.
Let us jump in.
And what we're going to do is we're going to make
an aspect class.
Now, sometimes in these lessons,
I'd like to do a lot of typing and talk you through
what I'm doing as I build it.
I found in this one that to have this pre-configured
makes it a little easier to talk through it
because it's a bit of a jigsaw puzzle in terms of how
this all fits together.
Let's just start at the beginning.
We're making a class here.
As I mentioned before, it's an aspect class,
that means it's declaring pointcuts and advices
and configuring the general behavior
of our AOP functionality.
Okay, so this is our class in our package, a custom class.
Now what we want to do in this class is three things,
we first wanted to declare a bean.
The bean that we're getting ahold of here is object type
performance monitor interceptor.
This is the subject of the lesson within this larger
spring framework package.
This method here, which we could call anything,
I'm calling it invocation interceptor,
is going to return an instance of that performance
monitor interceptor.
Okay, we have also declared in here,
a method called monitor.
Again, this method name isn't special.
We could call it anything, monitors kind of customary,
and it works for me.
So we've called this method and we've attached to it
a pointcut description.
This pointcut description corresponds to all of the entry
points in our controller.
Our demo controller is the thing that catches
browser activity when the user entered a path
in the browser,
it resolves to these different methods.
So we've got index method, error, monitor, query,
all of these end points here, quoter.
They are all being picked up here in this expression
demo controller dot star,
meaning every public method that returns a string.
And finally, we have an adviser.
Remember an adviser is the thing that combines
our pointcuts with our advices.
So without getting too far into the weeds here,
what we're doing here in this performance monitor
advisor method is we're putting together
this monitor method that we declared up here
with this invocation interceptor method,
which returns the spring class
performance monitor interceptor.
Embedded in the spring class is the method that actually
we're interested in running,
which is called invoke under tracing.
So finally,
by pairing our demo controller entry points
to our monitor method,
which again it gets linked up with this
performance monitor interceptor.
We will cause things to get put out into the logs.
Specifically,
we're going to get some kind of generic timings.
All right,
let's start this up and let me show you what we've got here.
You started successfully, okay.
Nothing's happening interesting until we invoke
some of these end points in our demo app,
you can see in here,
some of those logging's getting fired.
Let's say evoke a few more just to prove the point.
So every time we're invoking an end point now,
the performance monitor interceptor is kicking
out an instance of a stopwatch,
which is a Java utility class.
And the stopwatch is giving us simply the running time
for the method that we invoked in nanoseconds,
which is really hard to read.
And I believe a nanosecond in this case is .15 seconds.
So these are very, very fast methods.
All right, so that's good.
But now this is what gets interesting
is when we can customize this behavior.
Here is where we will do a little typing.
All right,
we can make a custom performance monitor interceptor.
The key things here in this class, again,
this is, we call this class anything we want to,
but the point is it has to extend this abstract monitoring
interceptor, which again is part of the spring framework
AOP package.
And this class as an extension of this interceptor class
can have any kind of attributes that we want to have.
We're going to declare a couple of longs
and this invoke under trace method
is the one I mentioned before.
This is the method word that we're going to override
to get our custom behavior.
So again,
I haven't typed out all of the functionality
inside invoke under trace,
but what we're doing is we're capturing some additional
metrics about the method that is getting traced
and how we make that happen is what we're going to do now.
So this is where we are going to type,
because I think it might be useful to teach.
So back here in our performance monitor configuration class,
remember this is our own class within our own package.
And this is where we're configuring
our aspect oriented behaviors.
So we're going to declare another bean and it's going to be
a lot like this one,
except this one's going to be our custom
performance monitor interceptor, which is in our own domain.
We can't duplicate.
Let's call it custom interceptor,
keep it short.
And then we're going to return an instance of our custom.
Okay. So it's analogous to what we did before.
Also,
we're going to do another analogous thing
is declare this new public method.
We have to give it a unique name.
Let's call it custom monitor.
And now,
instead of pairing this custom monitor method
to our demo controllers, let's pair it with something else.
Let's pair it with class in our domain package,
this CPU loader class,
and that class has a method called,
let's pop in there real quick.
Class has a method called expensive calculation.
And that's the one we want to put a trace on.
CPU loader expensive calculation.
And I believe was it a string that was returned?
Yes.
Okay.
So now we have a pointcut that describes our custom class
within calculation that we want to track.
And then finally, we need to make our advisor.
We can't name it the same.
We're going to call this one
our custom performance monitor advisor.
Going to make a generic pointcut.
And this expression we're going to set here
to this custom monitor method.
And we don't want invocation interceptor.
We want our custom interceptor.
This really is a bit of spaghetti
and it's a bit of a jigsaw puzzle.
Let's go through what's happening one more time.
We have a custom method inside of our aspect class.
We're pairing by means at this point,
cut expression or custom monitor method
with our custom interceptor.
Our custom interceptor when it does it's interception,
it's going to run our custom logic here in this
invoke under trace method.
And then finally this custom monitor method
is paired with our domain class CPU loader,
this specific method called expensive calculation.
Okay, now hopefully we'll start without error.
Good.
Now this time let's hit some of the same end points
that we did before.
And we also have this monitor endpoint
that I happen to know does hit into this monitor class
that we're trying to look and what we have here is behavior
just as we had before,
because we didn't take that away.
All of our stopwatch methods,
the default performance monitor interceptor is giving us.
In addition, though, when we hit the CPU loader method,
we got some additional statistics.
We got a warning here in the logger warn category
that we had a long running method,
ran longer than 10 seconds.
And we've,
we're keeping track of how many times
we get that warning here.
Let's make it again.
So now since our application has been running,
we've gotten this particular warning twice.
So this is just a super simple example of a method
that I was concerned about.
And we can put some additional logging around it
to keep us informed about what's happening there.
That's the lesson about performance monitor interceptor,
and I hope it's clear to you how this works
and how you might be able to use it in your applications.